# The Battle of the Orc Fortress and the Roper

Related by Michael Baron in an email.

---

We had already stormed the fortress above and defeated the orcs who were living there, thanks to the quick wits, fighting prowess, and sleep spell immunity of the Elf Illigrim. After slaying the host of orcs and the ogre which were sent out to slay the adventurers knocking on their door (very inhospitable of them) in a mighty battle which resulted in the death of the cleric Luther, the near death of Landorf the mighty human fighter, and the capture of the rest of the party, until we relized that Illigrim actually couldn't be affected by that sleep spell and replayed the battle from that point. Luther still died, but we ended up winning. Having defeated the attacking orcs, Illigrim mocked the orc chief, who was still inside the fortress, until he was shamed into challenging Illigrim to a duel. The orcs then lead the party into their fortress where they had an arena marked out. The duel was short and vicious, ending when Illigrim dropped the orc chief with a critical hit. One of the orcs then murdered the fallen chief and, taking control of the tribe, proceeded to lead them against the noble adventurers. Again a mighty battle ensued, but led by the tactical brilliance of the elf, who ordered the party to assemble behind a narrow choke point, the orcs were at a severe disadvantage. The new chief, spotting Illigrim, who was still injured from his fight with the old chief, charged over the caltrops scattered by Black Stag and was stuck down by the mighty elf. Illigrim having defeated a second chief declared himself to be the new chief of the tribe and forced the few remaining orcs to submit to his rule. Most of the orcs fled his tyranny shortly thereafter leaving him with a single warrior.

Anyway, that's not what Dane asked me to tell you about, but taking over the orc tribe was so cool I thought I would tell you about it anyway.

After traveling down into the mine, and having various encounters with stirges, troglodytes, and a large ooze, the party was traveling along a path which followed an underground river. The ranger Black Stag was leading the party, followed by Illigrim. A newly acquired cleric was in the center of the group with two merchants we rescued from the orcs, and Landorf was rear-guard. There we were walking along minding our own business, and Stag steps around a corner, is hit by several tentacles, and is instantly dropped to 0 Str. This attacked was accompanied by a phrase in undercommon which only Black Stag spoke. Being paralyzed he could not tell the rest of the party what the thing said. Landorf immediately charged forward and severed one of the tentacles holding Stag, but the other two attached tentacles began dragging Black Stag towards what looked like a stalagmite in the corner of the room. Illigrim also ran out into the room and launched a javelin at the creature, which bounced off without harming it. Again tentacles whipped out this time draining all of Illigrim Strength and dropping him paralyzed to the floor. With two of the party down, and being dragged toward a gaping maw, we were in dire straits. The cleric enlarged himself and tried to cross the river which was flowing in front of this creature, but slipped and was nearly swept away, fortunatly he had also been hit with a tentacle which held onto him despite the streams current. Landorf then tried to jump the river, failed and was swept downstream where he grabbed onto the enlarged cleric. The creature then finished draining the strength from the cleric. At this point Stag is making wild vows to befriend small children if Pelor saves him. Landorf also gets tentacled and partially drained at some point. Every member of the party was now paralyzed except Landorf the fighter. Valiently climbing off the cleric onto dry land, Landorf slashed viciously at the creature with his magic long sword, but to no avail. It's stony hide was too tough to penetrate. The thing then tried to take a bite out of Landorf, whose armor protected him.

And so, with the whole party, besides himself, paralyzed, Landorf says to the thing that just tried to eat him, "You're pretty strong, would you like to join us on our quest?" (spoken in a dumb fighter voice) To everyone's surprise the the stops trying to eat Landorf and responds, "What quest?" (in an even dumber voice)
"A quest to find the treasure."
"What's treasure? Does it taste good? I like tasting new things!"
"You can use it to buy things that taste good. If you help us we will give you lots of good things to eat."
"Good things? Like from the surface?"

Now, earlier we had aquired a bloodhound to help us track some orcs, and Black Stag had named it Pelor just to irritate our first cleric Luther who was a cleric of Pelor. So Landorf who is still in the clutches of the creature calls the dog, who wimpers and reluctantly comes out of his hiding place towards Landorf. "Here you go" says Landorf to the monster. Grab, crunch, gulp and we are short a dog.

"Mmm that was pretty good."
"If you help us we can get you lots more things from the surface to eat. Dogs, cats, squirrels . . ."
"Ok, I'll help you"

As you might have gathered the creature's mind was considerably less sharp than its teeth, and so the dumbest member of the party convinced it to stop trying to kill us, and join us in search of some treasure which may or may not exist. Currently it is dragging all the paralyzed characters behind it and chewing down doors for Landorf.

It was an interesting encounter and a lesson that it is better to speak to CR 11 monsters than to try and kill them. (especially when you're level 3) Of course the characters that were most likely to do the talking were paralyzed in the first 12 seconds, and without metagaming the characters had no idea what the thing was, or that it could speak common.
