# Shadow Plane

The Shadow plane is the substrate of memories and emotions, generated from the collective unconscious of intelligent beings. Aspects of reality that are thought about by many, such as imposing landmarks, are distinct and even exaggerated on the Shadow plane. Fast travel through the Shadow plane is largely accomplished by skipping over the parts of the Material plane that are not thought about or remembered.

Because fear, anger, and other unpleasant emotions are stronger than their positive counterparts, the plane of Shadow is foreboding and dark, presenting the "shadow" version of things, perhaps in ruins, or more dangerous, or twisted to unsettling purposes. The shadow version of a village may be a ruined, abandoned husk filled with lurking dangers. A marketplace might offer body parts and rotten food instead of fresh produce and wares. The clocktower might loom ominously, bedecked with gargoyles and spikes, its bell tolling a mournful dirge.

The plane of Shadow presents barriers and difficult terrain, including bodies of water, caverns, forests, mountains, and structures. While the Ethereal Plane might allow one to escape a prison by phasing through the walls, the Shadow Plane may have a version of the prison that is even more secure, with higher walls, smaller windows, and impenetrable doors. The clear-water moat may be teeming with vicious predators below an inky surface.

The plane of Shadow is not only a monochrome reflection of what is currently thought about, but also contains echoes of past events and things forgotten by every living creature. An ancient civilization may have literally "faded away" into the Shadow plane, continuing its existence in this half-real world.

The full moon prevents magical access to the plane of Shadow. When the moon is full, truth can be seen and shadow creatures are either banished or revealed in their true form. During the darkness of the new moon, nearly the reverse is true: many dark shadows become portals to the plane, allowing creatures of shadow to enter and prowl about.

The Shadow plane is the easiest to stumble across. Creatures on the plane of Shadow can peer out of shadows on the Material and potentially enter the Material through shadows. Curiously, the ability of a creature to peer out from and exit the plane of Shadow is inverse to its chthonic power (the more powerful creatures require deeper shadow), and it is much easier to peer out than to exit. Further, certain creatures have a greater affinity for the plane of Shadow than others, and have a kind of sense about what shadows can be used for crossing and also have an easier time crossing. This is a property of the plane reaching out to the creatures rather than an innate power they have. Beyond the obvious shadow creatures, lycanthropes and their kin (wolves, rats, bears, boars, tigers, etc.) have a great affinity for Shadow, as do all shapechangers and intelligent undead. Animals with black fur, feathers, or skin also have this affinity. The affinity affects not only the creature itself, but all nearby, meaning that creatures can more easily enter the Material from the plane of Shadow were affinity creatures are near shadows, and creatures can also more easily pass into the Shadow when accompanying an affinity creature.

The River Lethe is said to flow on the Shadow plane. Others say that the plane itself is the River Lethe. Losing one's shadow or one's shade is another term for losing one's memory, and crossing the River Lethe indicates that one has lost one's memory.
