# Previous Adventures

## Background

Ten years ago you were drawn into a dangerous but exciting foray into the wilds with strangers who soon became your closest and most trusted friends. Through thick and thin they stood by you, repeatedly risking their lives for you, and you your's for them. Circumstances brought you together, but choice kept you together. As your prowess increased and your fame spread, you began to draw connections between many of the seemingly random events that were causing misery and hardship for the innocents and even threatening to summon beings of immense power and evil. The clues began pointing to the throne, where you eventually traced the corruption to its source: the king. You were wise, and did not simply assassinate the king, placing yourselves outside the law and the people's favor. You instead unmasked his treachery and placed him at the mercy of the populace, who executed him on the spot and proclaimed you their new rulers.

It has been two years since you have become the lords of the land. The people have become much happier because of the reforms you have put in place and the end of the emergency levy. With the income from the royal lands, you support a well-regulated and efficient militia that watches for dangerous beasts and wicked strangers as well as helping to keep the peace and enforce the new laws. Work on repairing the kingdom's roads is progressing well, as is the long-term project of improving the defenses of the kingdom's cities. The people are especially pleased that you have not isolated yourselves in the manner of the old, corrupt lords, but rather make yourselves available and contribute to the kingdom's defense.

You have all gathered to review the progress of the work taking place throughout the kingdom. When the captain of the militia calls upon you to investigate a gruesome murder, you expect to handily deal with the perpetrator and likely return to the keep by lunch-time. Little do you realize that this is really the beginning of a new chapter.
