# Planes

## Material Plane

The Material plane involves the world orb in the center orbited by the Sun and Moon. The Three Sisters also orbit the world orb. Much further away the stars exist as mysterious aetheric orbs. The stars are believed to influence events in the world, and are also thought to be the home and source of a number of races, including dragons.

## Inner Planes

Inner planes of Fire, Water, Earth, Air, Positive Energy, and Negative Energy are infinite in that they have 4 spatial dimensions, and thus extend infinitely from the point of view of a 3 dimensional being. It is hard to fully grasp the nature of the Inner planes which exist beyond the River Styx, but they seem to somehow be the raw material or perhaps even the potential material which makes up the stuff of the Material plane. All matter seems to have some fundamental connection with the Inner planes.

## Ethereal Plane

The Ethereal plane is a plane of supernatural beings. Not only ghosts, but celestials and fiends on errands abound on the Ethereal plane. The Ethereal plane also has 4 spatial dimensions. As one travels away from the Material plane on the unshared dimensional axis, one travels further into what is generally called the Deep Ethereal. The Ethereal plane is coterminous with the Inner planes, sharing all 4 spatial dimensions, and allowing ethereal travel between the planes. When entering the Deep Ethereal from the Material plane, the Material plane simply becomes indistinct and finally disappears from view as one becomes distant, but on the Inner planes, travel into the Deep Ethereal is simply movement according an unfamiliar dimension. The Far Realms are believed to border on the Ethereal as an edge, rather than an overlap. The River Styx is actually a hyper-cylinder that separates the Material plane from the Inner planes. Mortal creatures and outsiders native to the Outer planes cannot pass through the River Styx, but are transported to the Outer planes instead.

The gods have numerous portals from their realms to the Ethereal, often located in or near places of worship. This allows creatures working for the gods easy access to the world of mortals, albeit as observers. Ethereal portals back to the deity's domain are less common, but still the general method of return. The outsiders that access the Ethereal through these portals can manifest, possess, and poltergeist if granted the power by a deity, but these powers require chthonic power to accomplish. While normal communication with the Material is a kind of manifestation, telepathy can communicate from the Ethereal to the Material. These messages are less distinct than normal same-plane telepathy, and if the creature on the Material plane does not have telepathy, it must pass a DC 15 Concentration check to discern the message as not coming from it's own imagination.

## Astral Plane

The Astral plane forms connections between spatial planes, but is not spatial itself. Any two beings on the plane are only as close or far from each other as their thoughts once no longer interacting with another being. Summoning produces a temporary astrally projected body. If the summoned creature is unwilling (as they generally are when not dreaming), then a sort of copy is produced, but the creature itself is neither aware nor inconvenienced by the summoned copy. While spatial beings can exist on the Astral plane alone, they exist in a transitive state of being. That is, the communication of their material form to another plane is put on hold. Where a Calling instantly translates the material form of a being from one plane to another, coming to exist on the Astral plane is essentially what would happen if the instant translation of the Calling were interrupted halfway through. The spatial nature of beings dictates the spatial nature of their interactions on the Astral plane, but the plane itself has no dimensions. Thus, one might imagine building a rod of extreme length on the Astral plane, and so long as one maintained interactional proximity to the rod, one would have spatial relation with all other beings in interactional proximity to the same rod. But, if a section of the rod were to be annihilated, and the remaining sections were no longer of an interactional proximity, then beings near opposing remaining segments of the rod no longer have spatial relation, and are just as near or far from each other as any other beings on the Astral plane.

## Outer Planes

Outer planes do not touch the Ethereal, and no ethereal effects work on the Outer planes. The Outer planes do not produce matter, energy, or anything measurable. In fact, the denizens of the Outer planes think of the Material plane as the Forge. It is the source of new souls and of additional chthonic power. The Outer planes, however, are the source of the forms of things, and produce new ideas and new configurations. Summoned creatures are the astral projections of exemplars on the Outer planes. The river Styx on the Ethereal plane operates as a kind of portal to transfer beings from the Ethereal to the Outer planes via the Astral plane.

## Shadow Plane

While ghosts primarily exist on the Ethereal plane, undead in general have a greater connection to the plane of Shadow. It isn't that the plane provides negative energy, but that the plane is a comfortable and fitting place for them. The Shadow plane is the substrate of memories and images. Illusions also draw upon this plane as well. Shapechangers and lycanthropes are at home here and may even have a stronger connection to this plane. When the moon is full, truth can be seen and shadow creatures are either banished or revealed in their true form. The full moon prevents magical access to the plane of Shadow. During the darkness of the new moon, nearly the reverse is true: many dark shadows become portals to the plane, many creatures of shadow enter and prowl about, and illusions of all sorts are stronger. The plane of Shadow retains the echoes of events from the past, and provides information for some divinations and even necromantic magic. While the plane of Shadow is the most easily accessible plane, and also the most spatially normal plane adjacent to the Material, it is also the most baffling. Perhaps the best way to understand this plane is to think of it as only partially real.

The Shadow plane is the easiest to stumble across. Creatures on the plane of Shadow can peer out of shadows on the Material and potentially enter the Material through shadows. Curiously, the ability of a creature to peer out from and exit the plane of Shadow is inverse to its chthonic power (the more powerful creatures require deeper shadow), and it is much easier to peer out than to exit. Further, certain creatures have a greater affinity for the plane of Shadow than others, and have a kind of sense about what shadows can be used for crossing and also have an easier time crossing. This is a property of the plane reaching out to the creatures rather than an innate power they have. Beyond the obvious shadow creatures, lycanthropes and their kin (wolves, rats, bears, boars, tigers, etc.) have a great affinity for Shadow, as do all shapechangers and intelligent undead. Animals with black fur, feathers, or skin also have this affinity. The affinity affects not only the creature itself, but all nearby, meaning that creatures can more easily enter the Material from the plane of Shadow were affinity creatures are near shadows, and creatures can also more easily pass into the Shadow when accompanying an affinity creature.

The River Lethe is said to flow on the Shadow plane. Others say that the plane itself is the River Lethe. Losing one's shadow or one's shade is another term for losing one's memory, and crossing the River Lethe indicates that one has lost one's memory.
